Indicates whether text should be rendered in a device independent, device dependent or mixed mode. Review the "Rendering Great Looking Text With D-Type" document for a comprehensive overview.

{strong}Supported values:{/strong}

0 = Device Independent Mode. Text will be rendered in a device independent mode, which means that text metrics are independent of the device, resolution or zoom factor and are mathematically accurate. Therefore, in text areas and rich text areas, characters that are supposed to vertically line up will always line up. In addition, all text lines will always fit within the width of the enclosing area. This is the default mode. Recommended for WYSIWYG applications.

1 = Device Dependent Mode #1. Text will be rendered in a device dependent mode, which means that text metrics are device specific. This mode utilizes a complex device dependent formula that is specially crafted to give good looking character spacing (calculated in whole-pixel units). This mode corresponds to the DV_TEXTMODE_DEVICE value in D-Type Standard Engine. See the dtxTextDoOutput family of functions in D-Type Standard Engine Manual for details.

Important note for text areas and rich text areas: Because this mode is device dependent, please be aware that the length of certain text lines will sometimes exceed the width of the enclosing area; also characters that are supposed to vertically line up will usually not line up. This behaviour is by design.

2 = Device Dependent Mode #2. Text will be rendered in a device dependent mode, which means that text metrics are device specific. This mode is similar to Device Dependent Mode #1 since it also utilizes a complex device dependent formula crafted to give good looking character spacing. However, this mode produces even better looking and easier to read text, especially at smaller sizes. This is accomplished by artificially increasing the amount of character spacing between certain characters and in certain conditions. This mode corresponds to the DV_TEXTMODE_DEVICE_2 value in D-Type Standard Engine. See the dtxTextDoOutput family of functions in D-Type Standard Engine Manual for details.

Important note for text areas and rich text areas: Because this mode is device dependent (and also because the character spacing may be artificially increased), please be aware that the length of certain text lines will sometimes exceed the width of the enclosing area; also characters that are supposed to vertically line up will usually not line up. This behaviour is by design.

101 = Mixed Mode #1. By default, the engine will render all text using Device Dependent Mode #1. In text areas and rich text areas, however, if there are any text lines whose length would exceed the width of the enclosing area, then those text lines will be rendered in a device independent manner. Consequently, for text areas and rich text areas, this mode guarantees that all text lines will always fit within the width of the enclosing area.

102 = Mixed Mode #2. By default, the engine will render all text using Device Dependent Mode #2. In text areas and rich text areas, however, if there are any text lines whose length would exceed the width of the enclosing area, then the engine will attempt to render those lines using Device Dependent Mode #1. If, after this, there are still some text lines whose length exceeds the width of the enclosing area, then those lines will be rendered in a device independent manner. Consequently, for text areas and rich text areas, this mode guarantees that all text lines will always fit within the width of the enclosing area. This mode usually produces great looking character spacing and is highly recommended whenever true WYSIWYG support is not a priority.
