The Eiffel Tower

The Eiffel Tower was built for the Centennial Exposition of 1889, a fair to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the French Revolution. It was designed and constructed by French engineer Alexandre Gustave Eiffel, who was subsequently nicknamed the Magician of Iron after the tower was completed. It was finished in early 1889, in a shroud of amazement and criticism. The tower was widely disliked by many of the artists, writers and citizens of the day. Well known artists wrote that the tower was "useless and monstrous" much like the tower of Babel. The design would eventually vindicate itself of this criticism, as the structure was sound, and there was an air of aesthetic beauty to it.

The tower was raised in just a few months with a small labor force and a relatively low cost. It was opened for the Exposition on June 10, 1889, and Eiffel spent the day ushering royalty to the top, showing off his magnificent piece of work. In the next few weeks, people such as the Shah of Persia, the Prince of Wales, the King of Siam, the Bey of Djibouti, the President of France, Buffalo Bill, and Thomas Edison were guests of the Eiffel Tower. More than 1.9 million people would visit the monument during the exposition.

The actual structure of the tower itself was highly advanced for the time period. It consisted of four semi-circular arches at the base with iron trusses along the sides. It was constructed entirely of iron and steel. The original tower was 300 meters high, making it the tallest free standing, man-made structure in the world at the time, finally being surpassed with the completion of the Chrysler Building in New York City in 1930. It was twice as tall as the dome of St. Peter's Cathedral in Rome or the great pyramids of Giza. The first level, the largest of the three, has been built into a museum called the Cinemax, where videos are shown about the history of the tower and its construction. The central structure consists of two levels, each of which has a restaurant. The third level is the Salle Gustave Eiffel, or Eiffel Hall, which has space for business conferences, expositions, cultural events, and other social gatherings.

After the 1889 exposition, Eiffel knew that he would have to find a practical use for his monument or it would be destroyed by the immense amount of criticism coming from the public. He teamed up with the French Central Weather Bureau in 1890, attaching thermometers, barometers, and anemometers to the top of the tower to record various weather readings and conditions. In 1909, he began a study of aerodynamics, building the first successful wind tunnel on top of the tower. Many of the artists were very jealous of the work that Eiffel had constructed, and they created a great deal of confusion and false rumors in an attempt to try and have his image ruined in the public's eye. They were somewhat successful for a time, until people began to see that this enormous structure was in fact a practical, useful piece of work, as well as being aesthetically beautiful. Today the Eiffel Tower is one of the most famous and most recognized monuments in the history of the world.


Saturn

Saturn is the most distant of the five planets known to ancient stargazers. In 1610, Italian Galileo Galilei was the first astronomer to gaze at Saturn through a telescope. To his surprise, he saw a pair of objects on either side of the planet, which he later drew as "cup handles" attached to the planet on each side. In 1659, Dutch astronomer Christiaan Huygens announced that this was a ring encircling the planet. In 1675, Italian-born astronomer Jean Dominique Cassini discovered a gap between what are now called the A and B rings.

Like the other giant planets - Jupiter, Uranus, and Neptune - Saturn is a gas giant made mostly of hydrogen and helium. Its volume is 755 times greater than Earth's. Winds in the upper atmosphere reach 500 meters per second in the equatorial region. (In contrast, the strongest hurricane-force winds on Earth top out at about 110 meters per second.) These super-fast winds, combined with heat rising from within the planet's interior, cause the yellow and gold bands visible in its atmosphere.

Saturn's ring system is the most extensive and complex in our solar system; it extends hundreds of thousands of kilometers from the planet. In fact, Saturn and its rings would just fit in the distance between Earth and the Moon. In the early 1980s, NASA's two Voyager spacecraft revealed that Saturn's rings are made mostly of water ice, and they found "braided" rings, ringlets, and "spokes" - dark features in the rings that seem to circle the planet at a different rate from that of the surrounding ring material. Some of the small moons orbit within the ring system as well. Material in the rings ranges in size from a few micrometers to several tens of meters.

Saturn has at least 30 satellites. The largest, Titan, is a bit bigger than the planet Mercury. Titan is shrouded in a thick nitrogen-rich atmosphere that might be similar to what Earth's was like long ago. Further study of this moon promises to reveal much about planetary formation and, perhaps, about the early days of Earth as well.

In addition to Titan, Saturn has many smaller "icy" satellites. From Enceladus, which shows evidence of surface changes, to Iapetus, with one hemisphere darker than asphalt and the other as bright as snow, each of Saturn's satellites is unique.

Saturn, the rings, and many of the satellites lie totally within Saturn's enormous magnetosphere, the region of space in which the behavior of electrically charged particles is influenced more by Saturn's magnetic field than by the solar wind. Recent images by NASA's Hubble Space Telescope show that Saturn's polar regions have aurorae similar to Earth's Northern and Southern Lights. Aurorae occur when charged particles spiral into a planet's atmosphere along magnetic field lines.

The next chapter in our knowledge of Saturn is already under way, as the Cassini/Huygens spacecraft began its journey to Saturn in October 1997 and will arrive on July 1, 2004. The Huygens probe will descend through Titan's atmosphere in late November 2004 to collect data on the atmosphere and surface of the moon. Cassini will orbit Saturn more than 70 times during a four-year study of the planet, its moons, rings, and magnetosphere. Cassini/Huygens is a joint NASA/European Space Agency mission.
